.nh
.TH "BCDOCK" "1" "Jan 2025" "BCDock CLI" "BCDock Manual"

.SH NAME
bcdock-auth-login - Log in via email OTP (returning users; account must already exist)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbcdock auth login [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Authenticate using the email one-time password flow.

.PP
Use this for returning users. Login does NOT create new accounts - brand-new
emails get an explicit error pointing at 'bcdock auth signup'. New users:
.IP "  1." 5
bcdock auth join-waitlist
.IP "  2." 5
(wait for invite email)
.IP "  3." 5
bcdock auth signup --invite-code CODE --email you@example.com
.IP "  4." 5
bcdock auth login --email you@example.com

.PP
You will be prompted for your email address, then a 6-digit code sent
to that address. A long-lived API key (bdk_...) is minted and stored in
~/.bcdock/credentials.json - no silent expiry.

.PP
For non-interactive use (CI, smoke tests, agents): pass --email and --otp
together to skip both prompts. The OTP must already be known to the
caller (Development mode accepts "000000" - see local-e2e.sh notes).

.PP
For CI/CD and agent use, prefer API keys: bcdock auth set-token 

.PP
Exit codes:
  0   ok
  1   general error (wrong email, wrong code, email not registered)
  3   auth failure
  4   rate-limited


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--email\fP=""
	Email address (skips prompt)

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for login

.PP
\fB--otp\fP=""
	Pre-known OTP code - skips the interactive Code: prompt. Requires --email. Intended for smoke tests and agent flows; humans should leave this unset.


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--api-url\fP=""
	API base URL (env: BCDOCK_API_URL)

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colored output

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="table"
	Output format: table, json, csv

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=30s
	Request timeout

.PP
\fB--token\fP=""
	API token (env: BCDOCK_TOKEN)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  bcdock auth login --email you@example.com
  bcdock auth login --email you@example.com --otp 123456
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbcdock-auth(1)\fP
